STATISTICS WORKSHEET-1

1. Bernoulli random variables take (only) the values 1 and 0.
a) True
b) False
Answer: a) True
2. Which of the following theorem states that the distribution of averages of iid variables, properly normalized, becomes that of a standard normal as the sample size increases?
a) Central Limit Theorem
b) Central Mean Theorem
c) Centroid Limit Theorem
d) All of the mentioned
Answer: a) Central Limit Theorem
3. Which of the following is incorrect with respect to use of Poisson distribution?
a) Modeling event/time data
b) Modeling bounded count data
c) Modeling contingency tables
d) All of the mentioned
Answer: b) Modeling bounded count data
4. Point out the correct statement.
a) The exponent of a normally distributed random variables follows what is called the log- normal distribution
b) Sums of normally distributed random variables are again normally distributed even if the variables are dependent
c) The square of a standard normal random variable follows what is called chi-squared distribution
d) All of the mentioned
Answer: d) All of the mentioned
5. ______ random variables are used to model rates.
a) Empirical
b) Binomial
c) Poisson
d) All of the mentioned
Answer: c) Poisson
6. Usually replacing the standard error by its estimated value does change the CLT.
a) True
b) False
Answer: b) False
7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
a) Probability
b) Hypothesis
c) Causal
d) None of the mentioned
Answer: b) Hypothesis
8. Normalized data are centered at______and have units equal to standard deviations of the original data.
a) 0
b) 5
c) 1
d) 10
Answer: a) 0
9. Which of the following statement is incorrect with respect to outliers?
a) Outliers can have varying degrees of influence
b) Outliers can be the result of spurious or real processes
c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship
d) None of the mentioned
Answer: c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship
WORKSHEET
Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.
10. What do you understand by the term Normal Distribution?
Answer: It is a type of Continuous probability distribution in which most data points cluster towards the middle of range.
11. How do you handle missing data? What imputation techniques do you recommend?
Answer: There are so many ways to handle missing data by using mainly
1. Mean Imputation 2. Substitution 3. Hot deck Imputation 4. Cold deck Imputation 5. Regression Imputation
12. What is A/B testing?
Answer: An AB testing is an example of statistical hypothesis testing.
13. Is mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice?
Answer: Mean imputation is typically considered terrible practice since it ignores feature correlation.
14. What is linear regression in statistics?
Answer: It is used to predict the value of a variable based on the value of another value.
15. What are the various branches of statistics?
Answer: There are two main branches of statistics
Inferential and Descriptive Statics
